README.md, before:

# Slack Notification Action

Send custom notifications to Slack from Github Actions. You can define the content of the message and the title in case of success or failure.

## 🚀 Running in GitHub Actions

Run this action in Github Actions by adding `pcvg/slack-notification-action@main` to your steps.

### Parameters

| Name                         | Meaning                                       | Default            | Required  | 
| ---                          | ---                                           | ---                | ---   | 
| `SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL`          | Default webhook                               | X                  | true |  
| `SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL`  | Webhook in case of failure and cancellation   | `SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL`| false |  
| `TITLE_SUCCESS`              | Title of the message in case of success       | X                  | false |  
| `TITLE_FAIL`                 | Title of the message in case of fail          | X                  | false | 
| `BODY_SUCCESS`               | Message content in case of success            | X                  | true |
| `BODY_FAIL`                  | Message content in case of fail               | X                  | true |

### Example - How to use?

```yml
name: Notification example
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - master
  
jobs:
  slack-notify:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Notify
        if: always()
        uses: pcvg/slack-notification-action@main
        with:
          SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL: https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX
          SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL: https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX
          TITLE_SUCCESS: "Your build was completed successfully."
          TITLE_FAIL: "Your build failed."
          BODY_SUCCESS: "The build started by ${{ github.actor }} in API service was completed successfully"
          BODY_FAIL: "Failed - ${{ github.actor }}'s build failed - <https://github.com/${{ github.repository }}/commit/${{ github.sha }}/checks|${{ github.repository }}>"
```

### Considerations

- `SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL` will be used as failure and success webhook if `SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL` is not defined.
- `SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL` it is used when the workflow fails or is canceled.
- You can get the webhook URL from [Slack Apps](https://app.slack.com/apps-manage/)

## ⚙️ Local dev

You can re-build locally.

Install dependencies:

            $ npm i

Build:

            $ npm run build

Run tests:

            $ Coming soon!

Local testing:

```sh
INPUT_SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL='https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX' \
INPUT_SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL='https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX' \
INPUT_JOB_STATUS='success' \
INPUT_TITLE_SUCCESS='Build Success' \
INPUT_BODY_SUCCESS='Your build completed successfully!' \
INPUT_URL_WORKFLOW='https://github.com/test/repo/actions/runs/123' \
  node dist/index.js

INPUT_SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL='https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX' \
INPUT_SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL='https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX' \
INPUT_TITLE_FAIL='Build Failed' \
INPUT_BODY_FAIL='Your build failed. Please check the logs.' \
INPUT_URL_WORKFLOW='https://github.com/test/repo/actions/runs/123' \
  node dist/index.js
```

## ⚖️ License
This project is licensed under the GPL-3.0 License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

Commit message:

new-input-for-color-customise

README.md, after:

# Slack Notification Action

Send custom notifications to Slack from Github Actions. You can define the content of the message and the title in case of success or failure.

## 🚀 Running in GitHub Actions

Run this action in Github Actions by adding `pcvg/slack-notification-action@main` to your steps.

### Parameters

| Name                         | Meaning                                                                                                                                                         | Default             | Required   | 
| ---                          |-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|------------| 
| `SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL`          | Default webhook                                                                                                                                                 | X                   | true       |  
| `SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL`  | Webhook in case of failure and cancellation                                                                                                                     | `SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL` | false      |  
| `TITLE_SUCCESS`              | Title of the message in case of success                                                                                                                         | X                   | false      |  
| `TITLE_FAIL`                 | Title of the message in case of fail                                                                                                                            | X                   | false      | 
| `BODY_SUCCESS`               | Message content in case of success                                                                                                                              | X                   | true       |
| `BODY_FAIL`                  | Message content in case of fail                                                                                                                                 | X                   | true       |
| `MSG_COLOR_SUCCESS`          | Color of the border on the left side of this attachment. Can either be one of good (green), warning (yellow), danger (red), or any hex color code (eg. #99c3ff) | good                | false      |
| `MSG_COLOR_FAIL`             | Color of the border on the left side of this attachment. Can either be one of good (green), warning (yellow), danger (red), or any hex color code (eg. #f99)    | danger              | false      |

### Example - How to use?

```yml
name: Notification example
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
  
jobs:
  slack-notify:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Notify
        if: always()
        uses: pcvg/slack-notification-action@main
        with:
          SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL: https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX
          SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL: https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX
          TITLE_SUCCESS: "Your build was completed successfully."
          TITLE_FAIL: "Your build failed."
          MSG_COLOR_SUCCESS: "#99c3ff"
          BODY_SUCCESS: "The build started by ${{ github.actor }} in API service was completed successfully"
          BODY_FAIL: "Failed - ${{ github.actor }}'s build failed - <https://github.com/${{ github.repository }}/commit/${{ github.sha }}/checks|${{ github.repository }}>"
          MSG_COLOR_FAIL: "#f99"
```

### Considerations

- `SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL` will be used as failure and success webhook if `SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL` is not defined.
- `SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL` it is used when the workflow fails or is canceled.
- You can get the webhook URL from [Slack Apps](https://app.slack.com/apps-manage/)

## ⚙️ Local dev

You can re-build locally.

Install dependencies:

            $ npm i

Build:

            $ npm run build

Run tests:

            $ Coming soon!

Local testing:

```sh
INPUT_SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL='https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX' \
INPUT_SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL='https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX' \
INPUT_JOB_STATUS='success' \
INPUT_TITLE_SUCCESS='Build Success' \
INPUT_BODY_SUCCESS='Your build completed successfully!' \
INPUT_URL_WORKFLOW='https://github.com/test/repo/actions/runs/123' \
INPUT_MSG_COLOR_SUCCESS='#99c3ff' \
  node dist/index.js

INPUT_SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL='https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX' \
INPUT_SLACK_FAILURE_WEBHOOK_URL='https://hooks.slack.com/services/XXXX' \
INPUT_TITLE_FAIL='Build Failed' \
INPUT_BODY_FAIL='Your build failed. Please check the logs.' \
INPUT_URL_WORKFLOW='https://github.com/test/repo/actions/runs/123' \
INPUT_MSG_COLOR_FAIL='#f99' \
  node dist/index.js
```

## ⚖️ License
This project is licensed under the GPL-3.0 License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details
